.TH CCMD 1 "April 2026" "ccmd 0.3.0-rc1" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
ccmd \- browse and manage cache directories
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ccmd
.RB [ \-r
.IR path ]
.RB [ \-s
.IR field ]
.RB [ \-\-no\-confirm ]
.RB [ \-\-vulncheck ]
.RB [ \-\-versioncheck ]
.PP
.B ccmd mcp
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ccmd
(Cache Commander) is a terminal user interface for exploring, analyzing, and
cleaning up cache directories.
It scans common cache locations, displays a navigable tree of cached data
sorted by size, and lets you selectively delete entries to reclaim disk space.
.PP
Security features include vulnerability scanning via OSV.dev and version
checking against upstream package registries.
.PP
The
.B mcp
subcommand starts an MCP (Model Context Protocol) server on stdio, allowing
AI assistants like Claude to query and manage caches programmatically.
Requires the binary to be built with the
.B mcp
feature flag.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-r ", " \-\-root =\fIpath\fR
Cache root directory to scan. Can be specified multiple times.
Overrides roots from the configuration file.
If omitted, default roots are used (see
.B CONFIGURATION
below).
.TP
.BR \-s ", " \-\-sort =\fIfield\fR
Initial sort field:
.BR size " (default),"
.BR name ", or"
.BR modified .
.TP
.B \-\-no\-confirm
Skip the confirmation prompt when deleting entries.
.TP
.B \-\-vulncheck
Enable vulnerability scanning.
Queries OSV.dev for known vulnerabilities in cached packages.
.TP
.B \-\-versioncheck
Enable version checking.
Queries package registries to identify outdated cached packages.
.SH KEYBINDINGS
.SS Navigation
.TP
.BR j / Down
Move cursor down.
.TP
.BR k / Up
Move cursor up.
.TP
.BR l / Right
Expand node.
.TP
.BR h / Left
Collapse node.
.TP
.B Enter
Toggle expand/collapse.
.TP
.B g
Jump to top.
.TP
.B G
Jump to bottom.
.TP
.B /
Filter by name (hides non-matching entries).
.SS Selection
.TP
.B Space
Toggle mark on current entry.
.TP
.B Shift+Space
Unmark all entries.
.TP
.B u
Unmark all entries.
.SS Security
.TP
.B v
Scan selected entry for vulnerabilities (via OSV.dev).
.TP
.B V
Scan all entries for vulnerabilities.
.TP
.B o
Check selected entry for outdated versions.
.TP
.B O
Check all entries for outdated versions.
.TP
.B f
Cycle status filter (none \(-> vuln \(-> outdated \(-> vuln+outdated).
.TP
.B c
Copy upgrade command to clipboard.
.SS Actions
.TP
.BR d / D
Delete marked entries. Does nothing if no entries are marked.
.TP
.B m
Mark all visible (non-dimmed) items for deletion.
.TP
.B s
Cycle sort field (size \(-> name \(-> modified).
.TP
.B r
Refresh selected entry.
.TP
.B R
Full rescan of all roots.
.TP
.B ?
Show in-app help screen.
.TP
.BR q " / " Ctrl+C
Quit.
.SH CONFIGURATION
.B ccmd
reads its configuration from:
.PP
.RS
.I ~/.config/ccmd/config.toml
.RE
.PP
Example configuration:
.PP
.RS
.nf
roots = ["~/.cache", "~/Library/Caches"]
sort_by = "size"
sort_desc = true
confirm_delete = true

[vulncheck]
enabled = false

[versioncheck]
enabled = false
.fi
.RE
.PP
CLI options override the corresponding configuration values.
.SH SUPPORTED CACHES
.B ccmd
recognizes and provides rich metadata for the following cache ecosystems:
.PP
.TS
l l.
Provider	Typical location
_
Bun	~/.bun/install/cache
Cargo	~/.cargo/registry
Chroma	~/.cache/chroma
GitHub CLI	~/.cache/gh
Homebrew	~/Library/Caches/Homebrew
HuggingFace Hub	~/.cache/huggingface
npm	~/.npm
pip	~/.cache/pip
pnpm	~/.local/share/pnpm/store
pre-commit	~/.cache/pre-commit
Prisma	~/.cache/prisma
PyTorch	~/.cache/torch
uv	~/.cache/uv
Whisper	~/.cache/whisper
Yarn	~/.yarn-cache, ~/.yarn/berry/cache
.TE
.PP
Unrecognized directories are displayed with generic metadata.
Entries for known providers include a safety indicator:
\fB\[u25CF]\fR (safe to delete),
\fB\[u25D0]\fR (caution), or
\fB\[u25CB]\fR (unsafe).
.SH MCP SERVER
When invoked as
.B ccmd mcp
(requires the
.B mcp
feature flag), the binary starts an MCP server using stdio transport.
The server exposes these tools:
.TP
.B list_caches
List all cache directories with size and item count per provider.
.TP
.B get_summary
High-level dashboard of total cache usage.
.TP
.B search_packages
Find packages by name with optional ecosystem filter.
.TP
.B get_package_details
Full metadata for a specific cache entry.
.TP
.B scan_vulnerabilities
Check for known CVEs via OSV.dev.
.TP
.B check_outdated
Check for available version updates from package registries.
.TP
.B preview_delete
Dry-run showing what would be deleted.
.TP
.B delete_packages
Delete cache entries with safety enforcement.
.PP
Deletions through MCP enforce a safety system: Safe entries are deleted
directly, Caution entries require explicit confirmation, and Unsafe entries
are rejected.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Normal exit.
.TP
.B 1
An error occurred.
.SH BUGS
Report bugs at
.UR https://github.com/juliensimon/cache-commander/issues
.UE .
.SH AUTHOR
Julien Simon <julien@julien.org>
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR du (1),
.BR ncdu (1)
